change: use RFC 9535 syntax for `jwt-role-claim-key` config (#4984)
PostgREST/postgrest: docs/references/auth.rst

JWT Role Extraction
-------------------

JSON Path (`RFC 9535 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9535.html>`_) can be specified for the location of the :code:`role` key in the JWT claims. It's configured by :ref:`jwt-role-claim-key`. This can be used to consume a JWT provided by a third party service like Auth0, Okta, Microsoft Entra or Keycloak.

> You can quickly try out JSON Path by visiting https://serdejsonpath.live/. If result has multiple values, first one gets selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can quickly try out JSON Path by visiting https://serdejsonpath.live/. If the result has multiple values, the first one gets selected.
```

I'm confused by that second sentence - is it really related to the serdejsonpath.live website?

If not, it should probably be a separate paragraph. Maybe one of them as some kind of hint or so?

Reviewer 2: Why should we promote that website? It's one more link that can break and postgres already provides jsonpath, if anything we should promote the latter.

Author: > is it really related to the serdejsonpath.live website? If not, it should probably be a separate paragraph.

Yeah it is not related, will move it.

> Why should we promote that website? It's one more link that can break and postgres already provides jsonpath, if anything we should promote the latter.

No specific reason to promote it, any website that can help users to quickly try it out could work here. `postgres` jsonpath isn't fully RFC 9535 compliant, for example: the following doesn't work when it should:

```sql
SELECT jsonb_path_query('{"names": ["alice", "bob"]}'::jsonb, '$.names[?search(@, "alice|bob")]');
```

Reviewer: This thread of yours, @steve-chavez, is the only one remaining open.

Usage examples:

  .. code:: bash

    # {"postgrest":{"roles": ["other", "author"]}}
    # Escape the dollar with another $ sign in the config file
    jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.postgrest.roles[1]"

    # {"https://www.example.com/role": { "key": "author" }}
    # non-alphanumerical characters can go inside single quotes
    jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.'https://www.example.com/role'.key"

    # {"postgrest":{"roles": ["other", "author"]}}
    # filter based on equality or regular expression
    jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.postgrest.roles[?(@ == 'author')]"

>     jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.postgrest.roles[?@.search(@, '^au')]"

Author: When specifying this in the config file, it requires **double** `$` chars to get parsed correctly. Works fine with single `$` char in both db and env configs. Maybe something related to `configurator-ng`? Hm, will look into it.

Reviewer: `configurator-ng` allows to reference environment variables, right? I think that happens via `$`, so this must be escaped, yes.

We even have a hint at this behavior in the docs for `jwt-secret`: https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v14/references/configuration.html#jwt-secret

Author: > `configurator-ng` allows to reference environment variables, right?

Yeah, ref: https://github.com/PostgREST/configurator-pg#file-format.

> We even have a hint at this behavior in the docs for `jwt-secret`: https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v14/references/configuration.html#jwt-secret

Cool, will document the same for this config as well.

.. note::
  
  - The ``$$`` is only used for :ref:`file_config`. For :ref:`env_variables_config` and :ref:`in_db_config`, only use single ``$`` char.

>   - In our implementation, only `search()` function from JSON Path is available for filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The ``$$`` is only used for :ref:`file_config`. For :ref:`env_variables_config` and :ref:`in_db_config`, only use a single ``$`` char.
  - In our implementation, only the `search()` function from JSON Path is available for filtering.
```

JWT Role Extraction
-------------------

> JSON Path (`RFC 9535 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9535.html>`_) can be specified for the location of the :code:`role` key in the JWT claims. It's configured by :ref:`jwt-role-claim-key`. This can be used to consume a JWT provided by a third party service like Auth0, Okta, Microsoft Entra or Keycloak.

Reviewer: I think this reads better:

```suggestion
A JSON Path (`RFC 9535 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9535.html>`_) can be specified for the location of the :code:`role` key in the JWT claims. It's configured by :ref:`jwt-role-claim-key`. This can be used to consume a JWT provided by a third party service like Auth0, Okta, Microsoft Entra or Keycloak.
```

> You can quickly try out JSON Path by visiting https://serdejsonpath.live/.

Reviewer: Really just a tiny nit :D

```suggestion
You can quickly try out JSON Path by visiting https://serdejsonpath.live.
```

Usage examples:

  .. code:: bash

    # {"postgrest":{"roles": ["other", "author"]}}
    jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.postgrest.roles[1]"

    # {"https://www.example.com/role": { "key": "author" }}
    # non-alphanumerical characters can go inside single quotes
    jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.'https://www.example.com/role'.key"

    # {"postgrest":{"roles": ["other", "author"]}}
    # filter based on equality or regular expression
    jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.postgrest.roles[?(@ == 'author')]"
    jwt-role-claim-key = "$$.postgrest.roles[?search(@, '^au')]"

.. note::

>   - If the result of JSON Path query contains multiple values, the first one gets selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If the result of the JSON Path query contains multiple values, the first one gets selected.
```

Reviewer: Maybe even better: "If the JSON Path query returns multiple values, ..."

  - Only when using the :ref:`file_config`, all ``$`` characters in the value must be escaped with an additional ``$`` char. For :ref:`env_variables_config` and :ref:`in_db_config`, only use a single ``$`` char.

>   - In our implementation, only the `search()` function from JSON Path is available for filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Currently, `search()` is the only JSON Path filter implemented.
```

Can we maybe link "JSON Path filter" to an authoritative source on what other filters there *should* be?

Author: Sure, will link https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9535.html#name-function-extensions here.
